


<h1><a name="developments" id="developments">Developments</a></h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>

The predecessor of <code>AniWiki</code> is <a href="http://R.yihui.name" class="urlextern" target="_blank" title="http://R.yihui.name"  rel="nofollow">Animated Statistics Using R</a>, which was created in Oct 2007 by Yihui. As time goes on, he find there are two obvious disadvantages of this website: (1) the static <code><acronym title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</acronym></code> pages are not easy to maintain; (2) to build a whole gallery of animations by a single person is also difficult. Thus he changed his idea to create a wiki on May 26, 2008 so that everybody can participate in this project to contribute their brilliant ideas in creating animations in statistics.
</p>

<p>
Topics for animations will start from the basic theories of probability and mathematical statistics (<acronym title="Central Limit Theorem">CLT</acronym>, estimation &amp; hypothesis testing, etc), then go through classical linear models and nonparametric statistics, and finally be diversified into several directions such as time series, multivariate statistics, econometrics, numerical optimization, data mining and machine learning, etc.
</p>

</div>
<!-- SECTION "Developments" [1-943] -->
<h2><a name="software_developments" id="software_developments">Software developments</a></h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>

As said in the home page, most of the animations in this wiki are based on the output of the R package <code>animation</code>. The package is created on Dec 11th, 2007 and kept being updated since then. Till now there are more than 20 animation functions included in the package. Besides, the package can support both the output of <acronym title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</acronym> animation pages (based on JavaScript) and animations inside R graphics devices.
</p>

</div>
<!-- SECTION "Software developments" [944-1387] -->
<h2><a name="wiki_developments" id="wiki_developments">Wiki developments</a></h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> May 26, 2008: the wiki system <a href="http://wiki.splitbrain.org/wiki%3Adokuwiki" class="interwiki iw_doku" target="_blank" title="http://wiki.splitbrain.org/wiki%3Adokuwiki">DokuWiki</a> was adopted as the supporting system of <code>AniWiki</code>.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> May 29, 2008: gained support for highlighting R code (also Rd code, etc) via <a href="http://qbnz.com/highlighter" class="urlextern" target="_blank" title="http://qbnz.com/highlighter"  rel="nofollow">GeSHi</a>; many thanks to <a href="http://www.sciviews.org/_phgrosjean" class="urlextern" target="_blank" title="http://www.sciviews.org/_phgrosjean"  rel="nofollow">Philippe Grosjean</a> who shared the <acronym title="Hypertext Preprocessor">PHP</acronym> code with me.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> TODO: JavaScript support for <code>AniWiki</code></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- SECTION "Wiki developments" [1388-1809] -->
<h2><a name="credits" id="credits">Credits</a></h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>

<code>AniWiki</code> would not be what it is today without the invaluable help of these people:
</p>

<p>
<a href="http://www.sciviews.org/_phgrosjean" class="urlextern" target="_blank" title="http://www.sciviews.org/_phgrosjean"  rel="nofollow">Philippe Grosjean</a>

</p>

</div>
<!-- SECTION "Credits" [1810-] -->